---
layout: page
title: Power Grid Equipment Fault Prediction 
img: assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Data Trend in Different Provinces.png
importance: 2
category: work
---

In the power grid equipment fault prediction project, I worked as a data analysis engineer responsible for data cleaning of oil chromatography data, including identifying anomalies and performing imputation for missing values.

In Fig. 1, I presented the system architecture of the project. The power grid equipment layer, as the data producer, includes devices such as transformers, power meters, chromatographs, cameras, etc., used to collect and monitor operational data of the power grid equipment. The second layer is the data cleaning layer, which performs data reconstruction and integration operations on diverse and complex data from different devices to ensure data quality and accuracy. To decouple the prediction system from power grid equipment and improve the practicality of the prediction system, the data cleaning module is completed by an external technology service platform. The third layer is the data service layer, responsible for synchronizing and storing services for long time-series data. The fourth layer is the fault prediction algorithm part, which utilizes missing data imputation algorithms and noise data processing algorithms to perform pre-processing and fault prediction services on the long time-series data generated by power grid equipment. Finally, the fifth layer is the platform application layer, providing users with graphically operable pages for data preprocessing and fault prediction operations.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Overview.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.1 The overview of the system.
</div>

In the data preprocessing module, the first step is to perform statistical analysis on the entire dataset. The dataset consists of approximately 1.55 million records of oil-immersed transformers from various provinces from 2009 to 2018, including transformer metadata, gas quantities, oil temperatures, voltage, power, and other variables. To better understand the characteristics of the dataset, it is important to conduct trend analysis by dividing the data according to provinces.

Specifically, several preprocessing tasks are performed on the data, including time series analysis, handling missing values, and addressing outliers, ensuring the reliability and accuracy of subsequent fault prediction analysis. Among all provinces, Sichuan and Shandong have the largest amount of data, contributing to 81% of the total dataset. This indicates that the prediction system can provide more accurate fault prediction services for power grid equipment in these two provinces. Additionally, it is essential to perform trend analysis on datasets from other provinces to gain comprehensive insights into the fault conditions of power grid equipment in each province, enabling more precise fault prediction services.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Data Trend in Different Provinces.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.2 Trend graph of data volume for each province from 2009 to 2018.
</div>

The graph in Fig. 3 shows the proportion of missing data and noisy data from 2009 to 2018. Through the comparison of missing data and noisy data, it can be observed that the current prediction system has relatively high data completeness and data quality. The missing data accounts for 1.97% of the total data, mainly involving missing values in some fields and entire data records, but not including continuous missing data for more than 14 consecutive days. On the other hand, the noisy data only accounts for 0.39% of the total data, indicating that the data quality is relatively high and provides a reliable data foundation for subsequent fault prediction.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Proportion of Missing Data and Noisy Data.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.3 The proportion of missing data and noisy data from 2009 to 2018.
</div>

Fig. 4 and 5 show the trends of the total data volume, missing data, and noise data from 2009 to 2018. It can be observed that the data volume has been increasing over the years, with relatively less data between 2009 and 2012. With the advancement and widespread adoption of technology, online monitoring devices have gradually replaced traditional monitoring methods, leading to a continuous rise in the overall data volume. However, as the data volume increases, issues related to data quality, particularly missing data and noise data, have also emerged. These challenges hinder the fault prediction process, highlighting the necessity and significance of data preprocessing.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Total Data and Missing Data Trend Chart.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.4 Trend of Total Data and Missing Data from 2009 to 2018.
</div>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Total Data and Noisy Data Trend Chart.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.5 Trend of Total Data and Noisy Data from 2009 to 2018.
</div>

Fig. 6 presents the trend chart of gas data for a certain oil-immersed transformer from February to November 2018, along with its missing value imputation results. Through the trend chart and imputation results, the correlation of gas variation can be intuitively observed, and it is evident that the transformer underwent maintenance at the end of September. The imputation results also demonstrate that our system effectively filled the missing values in the gas data.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Gas Trend and Interpolated Data for a Certain Transformer.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.6 Gas trend and interpolated data for a certain transformer.
</div>

As shown in fig. 7, the pie chart illustrates that the fault data accounts for 5.86% of the total data from 2009 to 2018, approximately 90,000 records. The proportion of fault data is relatively high; however, it is important to note that the predicted faults in the system may not perfectly match the actual faults. As defined earlier in the context of fault states, when the remaining useful life of a device is less than or equal to the critical value, the device is considered to be in a fault state. At this point, there is still a short period of time before the actual device failure occurs, which leads to the relatively higher percentage of fault data.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Fault Data Proportio.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.7 Fault data proportion.
</div>


As shown in Fig. 8 and Figure 9, they display the trends of the remaining useful life and fault occurrences of a certain transformer from 2009 to 2018, along with their corresponding predicted values. It is evident that the prediction system accurately forecasts the remaining useful life and potential faults of the transformer. Therefore, based on the experimental results, the proposed fault prediction system demonstrates high prediction accuracy and practicality, providing reliable support for the operation and maintenance of power grid equipment.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Trend Chart of RUL.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.8 The trend chart of the transformer's remaining useful life and the comparison with the predicted values.
</div>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/power_grid_equipment_fault_prediction/Transformer Failure Data Trend.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig.9 Comparison of transformer fault data trend plots and fault prediction results.
</div>


